Chicago rests on 234 square miles of land.
Chicago is the third largest city in the U.S. and is home to an estimated 2.7M residents.
Chicago is comprised of 77 community areas.
Chicago’s nicknames include: The Windy City, City of Big Shoulders, The Second City, The White City, and The City That Works.
Chicago’s motto, urbs in horto or “city in a garden,” was adopted in the 1830s and alludes to the city’s impressive and historic park system.
Chicago’s downtown area is known as “The Loop,” which refers to the area encircled by the Chicago Transit Authority’s (CTA) elevated (‘L’) train tracks.
The CTA operates the nation’s second largest public transportation system. On an average weekday, 1.6M rides are taken on the CTA.
Chicago is known as the United State’s railroad capital, with more major railroads serving the city than any other place in America.
Downtown Chicago’s underground pedestrian system, known as the Pedway, consists of tunnels and overhead bridges that cover roughly 5 miles and link more than 40 blocks in the Central Business District.
A unique downtown Chicago feature is its multi-leveled streets, the most well-known of which is Wacker Drive. This double-deckered street comprises an upper-level riverfront boulevard and a lower-level roadway for commercial and through traffic.
There are 135 hotels with 43,881 hotel rooms in the Central Business District.
The name Chicago was first recorded in 1688, where it appears as Chigagou, an Algonquian word meaning “onion field.”
Chicago’s first permanent settler in 1779 was Jean Baptiste Point du Sable, a trapper and merchant credited with building the trading post that evolved into Chicago. With French and African parentage, du Sable hailed from Haiti and settled in what was to become Chicago with his Potawatomi wife, Kittihawa (Catherine).
Chicago was incorporated as a town in 1833 and as a city in 1837.
The Great Chicago Fire of 1871 destroyed one-third of the city and left more than 100,000 homeless. Its initial spark remains unknown. FYI: The Chicago Water Tower and Pumping Station on Michigan Avenue, now home to City Gallery and Lookingglass Theatre, are among Chicago’s few remaining pre-fire buildings.
The 1893 Columbian Exposition was held on the grounds of Chicago’s Jackson Park. The exposition buildings were so striking that they launched the so-called ‘City Beautiful’ movement, which focused on Beaux-Arts aesthetics in American city planning. FYI: The exposition also gave rise to Chicago’s nickname, “The White City,” due to the appearance of its massive white Beaux-Arts-inspired edifices.
In 1900, Chicago successfully completed a massive and highly innovative engineering project, reversing the flow of the Chicago River so that it would empty into the Mississippi River rather than Lake Michigan. FYI: Each year, the Chicago River is dyed green to celebrate St. Patrick’s Day.
Chicago has 26 miles of lakefront with 25 beaches.
Chicago has more than 8,800 acres of green space and 600 parks; the Chicago Park District is the largest municipal park manager in the nation.
Chicago features over 200 miles of bike lanes, 19 miles of lakefront bicycle paths, and more than 13,000 bike racks and parking areas.
Chicago boasts 580 Divvy bike share stations and 5,800 Divvy bikes across the Chicagoland area.
Chicago is home to Art on theMART, the longest-running and largest permanent digital art installation in the world.
One of the largest collections of Impressionist and Post-Impressionist paintings outside of Paris is housed at the Art Institute of Chicago.
Chicago features more than 500 public works of art displayed in over 150 municipal facilities around the city as part of the City of Chicago’s Public Art Program includes works by Picasso, Chagall, Miro, and Calder.
Chicago has approximately 60 museums, nearly 200 art galleries, and 20 neighborhood art centers.
Chicago has more than 250 theatres, 225 music venues, and 200 dance companies.
There are more than 7,300 restaurants and 167 breweries in the Chicagoland area — the most breweries of any metropolitan area in the nation.
There are 369 landmarks and 59 historic districts in Chicago.
There are seven free downtown and lakefront major music and dance festivals in Chicago, more than 30 food festivals, over 400 neighborhood festivals, and more than 40 film festivals annually.
Nine downtown parades and 18 neighborhood parades are held each year in Chicago.




The starting point of “Historic Route 66” at Grant Park on Adams Street in front of the Art Institute of Chicago.
The Museum of Science and Industry is the largest museum of its kind in the Western Hemisphere. FYI: The museum is housed in the only remaining building constructed for the 1893 World’s Columbian Exposition’s “White City.” It was originally built as the exposition’s Palace of Fine Arts.
Máximo the Titanosaur, the largest dinosaur known to man, and SUE, the largest and most complete T.rex specimen in the country, at the Field Museum of Natural History.
The Chicago Cultural Center, built in 1897, which originated as the city’s first public library, and became the first free municipal cultural center in the United States. FYI: The Center is home to the world’s largest stained glass Tiffany dome.
Lincoln Park Zoo, one of the oldest zoos in the country, and one of the few remaining free zoos in the U.S.
Willis Tower (formerly Sears Tower) is the second-tallest building in the Western Hemisphere. FYI: Willis Tower held first place until the construction of New York’s One World Trade Center in 2014. Also, the Willis Tower elevators are among the fastest in the world, operating at speeds as fast as 1,600 feet per minute.
Wrigley Field (1914) is the second oldest ballpark in Major League Baseball.
Approximately 16 examples of Frank Lloyd Wright designs in the city of Chicago, and a further 25 in nearby Oak Park. FYI: Frank Lloyd Wright’s Prairie School of architecture originated in Chicago.
McCormick Place, the largest convention center in the Western Hemisphere.

more stuff from here, in the "Chicago firsts" section onwards:
https://www.choosechicago.com/press-media/toolkit/chicago-facts/